---
layout: post
title: Futuristic Software Development
---
You're at your desk.  
You've been writing code for hours now.  
You're trying to get your assigned project rolled out in spite of all the interruptions,
the lack of caffeine in your body, the background noise of people arguing whether it's Customer Support or just two developers debating about what to name a variable.  

Why do companies hire more software engineers as the company grows?
Shouldn't software development be more efficient as time passes?

If we were to start over with all the lessons that we've learned over the past decade
and attempted to build a new foundation for software, what would that look like?

 > What if humanity didn't need to rewrite the same piece of software over and over?

With the wide variety of high-level programming languages, it becomes very difficult
to reuse libraries across software architectures. The best we can do is duplicate the work
done in one language as closely as possible. Think of Rails (Ruby), Djano (Python), Yii/Larvel (PHP),
they're all solving the same problems over and over in slightly different ways.

To name a few:

  - ActiveRecord
  - Database Drivers
  - Database Migrations
  - Validations
  - Asset Pipelines
  - Testing Infrastructure
  - HTTP routing
  - Cookie & Session Management
  - ...

The end goal of all these projects is quite similar, but the paths deviate slightly. The first attempt that is closer to this goal is the [Meteor](https://www.meteor.com) project.
What if we only had to build that infrastructure once?
What if the system architecture of Netflix was the same one built for Youtube, Amazon video, etc...?
I guess that would eliminate the competition between them.
But then, how do we make progress and move forward?
What if software applications were reusable building blocks that could be plugged together to form a large system?

What if there was a higher level of abstraction that we could build to allow for such a platform?

What if we could just write a bunch of ReactJS components that autogenerated client-side and server-side code for us?
Completely self-contained, and highly cohesive?
All the business logic, data storage and caching can be abstracted via GraphQL and Relay.
All the UI can be handled by React.

Let's take this a step further. What if you could do all of this without writing a single line of code?
What if this platform could be wrapped in a scalable clustered linux container?

These are some of the questions that I ask myself...

### To be continued..
